America's top Diplomat Anthony blinkin
is due to arrive in Israel in the next
few hours from the US as the Us and
other nations try to prevent a wider
conflict erupting in the Middle East
there's also growing diplomatic pressure
to get essential supplies into Gaza
which has been sealed off after Hamas
which is designated as a terror
organization by many Western governments
launched attacks into Israel here are
some of the latest developments the
United Nations says more than
338,000 people have now been forced to
flee their homes in Gaza and food Fuel
and water are urgently needed ahead of a
possible incursion into Gaza the Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
established a National Emergency Unity
government with opposition leader Benny
Gans Israel has continued its
mobilization of troops hundreds of
thousands are on the southern border
with
Gaza President Biden said says he's told
Mr Netanyahu that Israel must abide by
the rules of war in its fight against
Hamas as we mentioned the US Secretary
of State Anthony blinkin is due to
arrive in Israel in the next hour or so
all this as Israeli air strikes on Gaza
continue the Palestinian Health Ministry
said at least 51 people died
overnight well here's the scene live in
Gaza this morning where just in the past
few hours the health Ministry has
confirmed as said that 1,200
Palestinians have been killed in
retaliatory air strikes since Saturday a
similar number of people in Israel are
now thought to have been killed in the
multiple assaults by Hamas at the
weekend in the last hour a military
spokesman said at least 220 soldiers are
amongst them well our correspondent Nick
beak reports now from Tel
Aviv Israel says hundreds of thousands
of its troops are gathering outside Gaza
and warns they'll soon be moving into
the Hamas controlled territory as part
of its response to the atrocities
committed on Israeli soil alongside this
show of military force a war cabinet has
been
formed citizens of Israel this evening
we have established a National Emergency
government the people of Israel are
united and today its government is
united we are fighting a cruel enemy
world
than
Isis in Washington President Biden
pledged unwavering support for Israel
Americans were among the up to 150
hostages feared to have been taken into
Gaza and among those killed in hamas's
assault this attack uh was uh a campaign
of pure
cruelty not not just hate but cruelty
against the Jewish
people and I would argue it's the
deadliest day for Jews since the
Holocaust the deadliest St is
Holocaust this is what Gaza looked like
in the early hours of this morning
plunged Into Darkness after its only
Power Station shut down Israel has cut
off electricity supplies to these
densely populated Palestinian
communities many are now in Ruins after
being bombarded by Israeli air strikes
over the past 5 days the UN says
essential supplies of food Fuel and
water must be allowed to reach
civilians we left our homes thinking
that we would return in an hour we left
our belongings money food and everything
we owned now there are 50 people in the
house without food drink water or
electricity I do not know how we'll
provide food for our children I'm
searching here under the rubble for the
remains of lentils and rice even a
little for my
children Israel says hamas's attacks
justify this response that this is an
act of self-defense but Israel is
accused of breaking international law
killing hundreds of civilians in an act
of Revenge this is the latest footage
released by the Israeli military showing
their bombardment of Gaza they say it
will continue until Hamas is wiped off
the face of the Earth as the calls
become even more urgent for Aid to be
allowed in and for civilians to be given
away out Nick beak BBC News Tel
Aviv well we heard from the Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in
Nick's report joining his War cabinet is
the main opposition leader and Mr
netanyahu's longtime rival Benny Gant
after they agreed to form an emergency
Unity government to manage the war with
Hamas at a news conference Mr Gans who's
a former Army Commander said the move
sent a strong
message our standing here together
shoulder to shoulder is a message to our
enemies and most importantly a message
to all citizens of Israel we are all
together we are all
soldiers there is a time for war and a
Time For Peace now is a time for
war well overnight Israel 's exchange of
Rocket fire with Hamas continued these
pickets these pictures show Rockets
being fired into Israel from Gaza and
this footage shows Israel's Iron Dome
missile defense system intercepting
those Rockets with Explosions in the
Sky well BBC verifies is continuing to
monitor the impact of Israeli air
strikes in Gaza several videos released
by the Israeli Defense Force
have shown their attacks one was on the
Islamic University of Gaza targeted
between the 10th and 11th of October
this is a satellite image of what the
university looked like before the strike
BBC verify matched the building's
distinctive shapes to know that this
image was taken after the strike Israel
says Hamas was using the university as a
training camp for weapons development
and Military Intelligence well that's a
claim we haven't been able to
independently confirm
these images show the AL Ral area before
the strikes and this is a satellite
image of the same neighborhood in Gaza
which came through yesterday and has
been located by our colleagues a BBC
verify well with me now is s shat from
BBC Arabic s just over two million
people living inside uh Gaza very small
area what have what's the latest of that
we've been hearing overnight uh the
latest is more bombardment from uh
Israel air strikes and demolish building
uh destruction people will killed I look
at several videos it's horrific videos
of children dying the ambulances
carrying some of them under the
Restriction because the ceiling of like
not allowing food or electricity so
there's a problem in fuel to even to
make this Hospital working at full
capacity so you use only the hospital
for helping people saving life all not
like death uh like threat but like
nothing more than that and this like put
pressure there is more than 100 1,200
people died according to the uh Ministry
of Health in Gaza and there is about
5,000 injured so far there is more than
300,000 according to the UN at this
place or forced to leave their houses
but the problem where do you go even
Israel like warn them like leave their
your houses because we're hitting it
under the claim they are used by Hamas
Fighters but where do you go these
people well where do you go that's the
question isn't it I mean I know there
are some negotiations ongoing there is
pressure mounting on Israel to allow
some civilians to leave Gaza what are
some of the challenges with that idea
the problem is uh there was a an old
idea that to put the people of Gaza in
Sinai and it was like a proposal but was
refused by Egypt and the president of
Egypt refused that but allowing like
humanitarian uh for humanitary reason to
come that's no problem and Egypt sent a
convoy big Convoy but Israel refusing to
allow it end so Egypt can do that
through Rafa Crossing uh United States
and I think with blinkin visit and with
other pressure from uh C turkey Saudi
Arabia Iran it might uh help to ease
attention and put pressure on Israel to
allow that because with the images of
people children dying and with
demonstration in many places so I think
Israel will lose I think the battle in
media if they don't allow this
humanitarian to go humanitarian Corridor
to do to go there you've mentioned all
these Regional players now we know that
Saudi Iran uh Saudi Arabia and Iran have
been speaking quite unusual really
they've only just started to reestablish
diplomatic ties can you tell us what
they've been talking about and and in
particular where Saudi Arabia is
standing in all of this it was the first
time uh a contact between the Iranian
president Ibrahim RI and the Crown
Prince of Saudi Arabia Muhammed bin
Salman since uh the uh agreement of
resuming the relationship in March uh
through mediation by China and according
to the Iranian State media they saying
that uh the Ibrahim RI talk with
Muhammad B Salman the need to stop the
what he described war crimes against
Palestine but on the other hand this the
Saudi media uh agency like the state
media saying Ben Salman didn't mention
about war crimes but he what he said is
there is need to allow humanitarian AIDS
there is need to stop like uh the
atrocities happening there and and there
is no and even he was rejecting killing
civilians and implicitly it means
civilian from both sides so he didn't
take one side because killing civilians
is is not is not is not allowed and the
same time you know like Iran has is
known to support Hamas and uh and hisbah
so I think the rule of Saudi Arabia to
convince Iran not to do that so it will
contain uh the uh conflict not to be uh
uh outside this uh thing and to escalate
it side thank you very much for taking
us through that side sh shahata from BBC
arbec thank
you